---
layout: post
title: Object Oriented Programming Unit 11 reflection
subtitle: Pointers, References & Memory, and Design Patterns
tags: [OOP, Pointers, References, Memory, Design Patterns, Assignment 2, 11]
---

#### Reflection of Unit

#### Update for assignment 2:
#### Commentary for sequence diagram:
The purpose of this code is to depict the sequence process that the driverless car goes through.


The output for this code displayed:

        Engine started
        Calculating route to: 987 street
        Engine status checked
        Getting current location
        Engine stopped

#### Commentary for state transition diagram:
The purpose of this code is to demonstrate the different states that are involved in the process of a driverless car.

For the "is_at_destination" state, there needs to be 3 critera required all at the same time for the car to confirm it has reached destination.

The driverlessCarState attribute "self.navigation_started" ensures that the navigation has been started which must be the case in order to reach the set destination.

The attribute "self.current_speed == 0" confirms that the car's current speed is zero, which indicates that it has come to a complete stop. 

I have included the code "not self.obstacle_detected" which confirms that there are no obstacles detected along the way, which must be the case in order for the car to confirm it has reached the destination and the driver/passenger can get out safely.


The output for this code displayed:

        Engine is off
        Engine is on
        Destination set to: 123 street
        Route has been calculated
        Navigation started
        Accelerating to 40 mph
        Obstacle detected
        Braking
        Obstacle cleared
        Car has reached the destination!


#### Testing for the code:
For the use-case diagram code, I tried testing the code through the method of unittest. The test makes sure that each class (test_driver, test_passenger, test_sensor_system) is being tested separately. Here. a test class called TestClass is created, and that inherits from unittest.TestCase. In each test method, assertions are performed in order to check if the attributes in each distinct class are set correctly (e.g. for Driver class, the attributes being tested are driver.name and driver.destination, and so on for the other classes). In order to compare the expected values with the actual values, the assert statement is formatted as self.assertEqual().
At the end of the test code, the additional argument argv=['first-arg-is-ignored'] is implemented in order to remove the AttributeError that is associated with the '/root/' module attribute.

The output provided suggests that the test ran successfully, showing:
        
        Ran 3 tests in 0.011s

        OK




#### References:
StackOverflow (2016). https://stackoverflow.com/questions/37895781/unable-to-run-unittests-main-function-in-ipython-jupyter-notebook [Accessed: 12 July 2023].
