---
layout: post
title: Object Oriented Programming Unit 3 reflection
subtitle: UML
categories: 
tags: [OOP, UML, 3]
---


#### Unit 3 Notes
Learning about **UML (Unified Modelling Languages)**: seems to be quite a straightforward and simple concept used in IT/businesses in order to efficiently and effectively communicate software designs/models so that essentially everyone is on ‘the same page’ and has a general understanding of what is needed and what to expect (i.e. software engineers, stakeholders, management team).

I found the lecturecast to be very helpful when giving a clear and organised way of how UML works and the different models that are involved within in. I feel confident in understanding what the different models do, which models are associated with which type (behavioural, structural or architectural), why there are different models to be aware of.

From what I have seen, it seems to be at least useful to know and be aware about UML but they do not seem to be necessarily common to experience when working in software companies. However, it appears that being able to know and understand some form of software diagramming is very important for a career in development.

It’s also useful to be aware of the various issues that can occur with experiences with UML including:

> The lack of consistency – especially when there are multiple teams involved in the development process and these teams have different understandings with each other regarding the model/system.

> Poor quality models/diagrams which may lead to various ways in which the model is represented by different groups/members, which can affect the overall understanding of the model.

> The informality that some developers may apply when creating the models, which can lead to key information being missing and shortcuts being taken - although it should be noted that modelling is not the same as coding. For example, it is similar to the way in which the building industry works, whereby blueprints are written in an informal style using many different methods that depend on the common sense of the builder, but the buildings are still built from them successfully.


#### e-Portfolio activities

Discuss which UML models are most applicable at different stages of the Software Development Life Cycle.

Making reference to ‘The Unified Modeling Language Reference Manual Second Edition’, use the State Machine Diagram in Figure 3-7 to design a similar model for a washing machine.




#### References
Lange, C.F., Chaudron, M.R. & Muskens, J. (2006) In Practice: UML Software Architecture and Design Description. *IEEE Software*, 23(2), pp.40-46.

Philips, D. (2018) 'Object Oriented Design' in: *Python 3 Object-Oriented programming*. 3rd ed. Packt Publishing

Rumbaugh, J., Jacobson, I. & Booch, G. (2004) 'UML Walkthrough' in: *The Unified Modeling Language Reference Manual*. 2nd ed. Addison-Wesley.
