---
layout: post
title: Object Oriented Programming Unit 9 reflection
subtitle: Packaging and Testing
tags: [OOP, Packaging, Testing, 9]
---

#### Reflection of Unit
One useful tool I have learnt through this unit when testing Python code/debugging is through the use of the **Assert** statement - with this you can test if a certain condition is true; if the condition is true, nothing will happen and the code will keep running, but if an event occurs where the condition is not true, an AssertionError will flag up.

A further way of supporting the testing process is a technique known as paired programming, whereby two developers work together on a single computer. The two people will work together to design, develop and test their user stories. Here, testing can be supported through one developer constantly being involved in reviewing the work of the other programmer.

In terms of further reading, the paper by Smith and Robson (1990) provides a helpful outline on the issues that can arise from testing in Object-Oriented Programming. This is particularly helpful for me when thinking about testing for the upcoming assignment on writing the code for my driverless car UML diagrams. One important feature of OOP that can bring up issues through testing is when using inheritance – the paper includes potential problems such as when using regression testing on classes which contain inherited features as if the superclass changes features, this directly effects its child classes – this had led me to think more carefully about how I will implement my coding; such as when/if to use inheritance.

A further issue discussed in the paper is the involvement of control flow in OOP, whereby as OOP does not have a conceptual input/process/output programme, an alternate method of analysing the code is to see how the object’s state will change under certain conditions.

In terms of encapsulation in OOP, one thing to be cautious of is that a part of the code can be "hidden". When hidden, the state is only apparent through access functions, and test cases must be carefully written to examine their behaviour. Thus, very explicit mechanisms need to be defined to ensure that all aspects of the code can be tested under the variety of circumstances in which they may run. It is only by doing so that the aspects of the code which can be hidden in certain circumstances can be fully explored.

Another paper which has been helpful in looking at the way of testing in OOP is by Hourani et al. (2019) which provides a model to promote readability, understandability and re-usability of code which leads to benefits in testability. One aspect of their model they consider to be important to consider when looking at increasing quality of code in OOP is the number of children classes (when using inheritance) – this is important to consider for me with regarding what actions to take for my upcoming assignment. An added part of their model they argue should be focussed upon is the number of lines implemented per method – this is also relevant to me for my assignment when considering removing irrelevant code in order to reduce complexity and to promote easier testability.

Furthermore, Reitz (2016) provides some useful tips for testing, including testing for each line/unit separately, while also making sure that the name of your test is descriptive so it’s clearer to you and others to see what exactly you are testing and wanting to prove.


#### E-Portfolio activities - Activity 4:
Extend the following program to test accuracy of operations using the assert statement.

            # Python String Operations
            str1 = 'Hello'
            str2 ='World!'

            # using +
            print('str1 + str2 = ', str1 + str2)
            assert str2 != 'Hello'
            assert str2 != 'World!'

            # using *
            print('str1 * 3 =', str1 * 3)


The output raises an AssertionError for the second assert statement since the variable str2 is equal to ‘World!’. 
Also, since an exception is raised by the failed assert statement, the program terminates and does not continue to execute the print statement on the next line.



#### References
Geeksforgeeks (n.d.) Python Assert Statement. Available from: https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/python-assert-keyword/ [Accessed: 7 July 2023]

Hourani, H., Wasmi, H. & Alrawashdeh, T. (2009). A Code Complexity Model of Object Oriented Programming (OOP). *2019 IEEE Jordan International Joint Conference on Electrical Engineering and Information Technology (JEEIT)* (pp. 560-564).

Jacobson, I., Rumbaugh, J. & Booch, G. (2004) *The Unified Modeling Language Reference Manual*. 2nd ed. Pearson Education.

Pezze, M. & Young, M. (2008) *Software Testing and Analysis: Process, Principles, and Techniques*.

Reitz, K. (2016) *The Hitchhiker’s Guide to Python: Best Practices for Development*. O’Reilly.

Smith, M. D, & Robson, D. J. (1990) Object-oriented programming-the problems of validation. *Proceedings of the Conference on Software Maintenance* (pp. 272-281).
